Introduction of Edge Dictionaries (#178)
fastly/terraform-provider-fastly: website/docs/r/service_dictionary_items_v1.html.markdown

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: service_dictionary_items_v1"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-resource-service-v1"
description: |-
  Provides a grouping of fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service. 
---

> # fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1

Reviewer: It would be good to add a comment in this documentation regarding the use of lifecycle ignore_changes if the user doesn't want TF to manage item state after initial apply.

Author: I have expanded the description to cover this and provided an example of the lifecycle ignore_changes with the resource.

Author: documentation has been expanded and will need a more specific review.

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: service_dictionary_items_v1"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-resource-service-v1"
description: |-
  Provides a grouping of Fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service. 
---

# fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1

Defines a map of Fastly dictionary items that can be used to populate a service dictionary.  This resource will populate a dictionary with the items and will track their state.

> ~> **Warning:** Terraform will take precedence over any changes you make in the UI or API. Such changes are likely to be reversed if you run terraform again.  

Reviewer: Uppercase T on second Terraform

Author: Uppercase T has been corrected.

```hcl
// Local variables used when formating values for the "My Project Dictionary" example
locals {
  dictionary_name = "My Project Dictionary"
  host_base = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
  host_divisions = ["alpha", "beta", "gamma", "delta"]
}

// Define the standard service that will be used to manage the dictionaries.
resource "fastly_service_v1" "myservice" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "demo.ocnotexample.com.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    name = "AWS S3 hosting"
    port = 80
  }

  dictionary {
    name = local.dictionary_name
  }

  force_destroy = true
}

// This resource is dynamically creating the items from the local variables through for expressions and functions.
resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "project" {
  service_id = fastly_service_v1.myservice.id
  dictionary_id = {for d in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : d.name => d.dictionary_id}[local.dictionary_name]
  items = {
    for division in local.host_divisions:
      division => format("%s.%s", division, local.host_base)
  }
}
```

### Supporting API and UI dictionary updates with ignore_changes

> The following example demonstrates how the lifecycle ignore_change field can be used to suppress updates against the 

Reviewer: Backticks around `ignore_changes` please for consistency

Author: backticks have been added.

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: service_dictionary_items_v1"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-resource-service-v1"
description: |-
  Provides a grouping of Fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service. 
---

# fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1

Defines a map of Fastly dictionary items that can be used to populate a service dictionary.  This resource will populate a dictionary with the items and will track their state.

~> **Warning:** Terraform will take precedence over any changes you make in the UI or API. Such changes are likely to be reversed if you run terraform again.  

If Terraform is being used to populate the initial content of a dictionary which you intend to manage via API or UI, then the lifecycle `ignore_changes` field can be used with the resource.  An example of this configuration is provided below.    

## Example Usage

Basic usage:

```hcl

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra line.

variable "mydict_name" {
	type = string
	default = "My Dictionary"
}

resource "fastly_service_v1" "myservice" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
      name    = "demo.notexample.com"
      comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
      address = "demo.notexample.com.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
      name    = "AWS S3 hosting"
      port    = 80
    }

  dictionary {
	name       = var.mydict_name
  }

  force_destroy = true
}

resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "items" {
    service_id = "${fastly_service_v1.myservice.id}"
    dictionary_id = "${{for s in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : s.name => s.dictionary_id}[var.mydict_name]}"
    items = {
        key1: "value1"
        key2: "value2"
    }
}

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra line.

```

Complex object usage:

```hcl

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra line.

variable "mydict" {
  type = object({ name=string, items=map(string) })
  default = {
    name = "My Dictionary"
    items = {
      key1: "value1x"
      key2: "value2x"
    }
  }
}

resource "fastly_service_v1" "myservice" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name    = "demo.notexample.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "demo.notexample.com.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    name    = "AWS S3 hosting"
    port    = 80
  }

  dictionary {
    name = var.mydict.name
  }

  force_destroy = true
  }

resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "items" {
  service_id = fastly_service_v1.myservice.id
  dictionary_id = {for d in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : d.name => d.dictionary_id}[var.mydict.name]
  items = var.mydict.items
}

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra line.

```

Expression and functions usage:

```hcl
// Local variables used when formating values for the "My Project Dictionary" example
locals {
  dictionary_name = "My Project Dictionary"
  host_base = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
  host_divisions = ["alpha", "beta", "gamma", "delta"]
}

// Define the standard service that will be used to manage the dictionaries.
resource "fastly_service_v1" "myservice" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "demo.ocnotexample.com.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    name = "AWS S3 hosting"
    port = 80
  }

  dictionary {
    name = local.dictionary_name
  }

  force_destroy = true
}

// This resource is dynamically creating the items from the local variables through for expressions and functions.
resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "project" {
  service_id = fastly_service_v1.myservice.id
  dictionary_id = {for d in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : d.name => d.dictionary_id}[local.dictionary_name]
  items = {
    for division in local.host_divisions:
      division => format("%s.%s", division, local.host_base)
  }

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra line.

}
```

> ###Supporting API and UI dictionary updates with ignore_changes

Reviewer 2: Please add a blank after the third `#`.

The following example demonstrates how the lifecycle ignore_change field can be used to suppress updates against the 
items in a dictionary.  If, after your first deploy, the Fastly API or UI is to be used to manage items in a dictionary, then this will stop Terraform realigning the remote state with the initial set of dictionary items defined in your HCL.

```hcl
...

resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "items" {
    service_id = "${fastly_service_v1.myservice.id}"
    dictionary_id = "${{for s in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : s.name => s.dictionary_id}[var.mydict_name]}"
    items = {
        key1: "value1"
        key2: "value2"
    }
    
    lifecycle {
      ignore_changes = [items,]
    }
}

> 

Reviewer 2: Please remove the extra lines.

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: service_dictionary_items_v1"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-resource-service-v1"
description: |-

>   Provides a grouping of fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service. 

Reviewer: Change to:
> Provides a map of Fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service.

Author: Message was updated with new wording.

---

# fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1

> Provides a map of Fastly dictionary items that can be applied to a service.

Reviewer 3: "Provides"? Maybe "Defines"?

Reviewer 3: "can be applied to a service" => "can be used to populate a service dictionary"?

Author: Alterations have been applied

> This resource will populate a dictionary with the items and it will track their state going forward.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This resource will populate a dictionary with the items and will track their state.
```

> Additional dictionary items can be added through the Fastly API or UI, but will be removed from Fastly if Terraform detects a difference in the remote state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dictionary items can also be added through the Fastly API or UI, but will be removed from Fastly if Terraform detects a difference in the remote state.
```

Can this be in a warning box?

> Additional dictionary items can be added through the Fastly API/console, but will be removed from fastly if terraform detects a difference in the remote state.

Reviewer: Please change "API/console" to "API or UI"
Please change "faslty" to "Fastly"
Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

> The Fastly API/console can also be used to modify the items that are managed through Terraform.  In this case the default behaviour of the 

Reviewer: Please change "API/console" to "API or UI"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

> resource will be to realign the remoted state.  The items in the remote Fastly dictionary will be updated or deleted according to the Terraform plan.  

Reviewer 3: This seems a bit complicated way of saying "Terraform will take precedence over any changes you make in the UI or API.  Such changes are likely to be reversed if you run terraform again.

Author: Paragraphs have been replaced by the more straightforward wording

> resource will be to realign the remoted state.  The items in the remote fastly dictionary will be updated or deleted according to the terraform plan.  

Reviewer: Please change "fastly" to "Fastly"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

> If Terraform is being used to only create initial items in a dictionary, then the lifecyle `ignore_changes` field can be used with the resource.  An example of this configuraiton is provided below.    

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Terraform is being used to populate the initial content of a dictionary which you intend to manage via API or UI, then the lifecycle `ignore_changes` field can be used with the resource.  An example of this configuration is provided below.    
```

> If Terraform is being used to only create initial items in a dictionary, then the lifecyle ignore_changes field can be used with the resource.  An example of this configuraiton is provided below.    

Reviewer: Please wrap "ignore_changes" with backticks so it is rendered appropriately.

Author: The extra formating was added to render correctly

}

```

Expression and functions usage:

```hcl
// Local variables used when formating values for the "My Project Dictionary" example
locals {
  dictionary_name = "My Project Dictionary"
  host_base = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
  host_divisions = ["alpha", "beta", "gamma", "delta"]
}

// Define the standard service that will be used to manage the dictionaries.
resource "fastly_service_v1" "myservice" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name = "demo.ocnotexample.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "demo.ocnotexample.com.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com"
    name = "AWS S3 hosting"
    port = 80
  }

  dictionary {
    name = local.dictionary_name
  }

  force_destroy = true
}

// This resource is dynamically creating the items from the local variables through for expressions and functions.
resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "project" {
  service_id = fastly_service_v1.myservice.id
  dictionary_id = {for d in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : d.name => d.dictionary_id}[local.dictionary_name]
  items = {
    for division in local.host_divisions:
      division => format("%s.%s", division, local.host_base)
  }

}
```

> Lifecyle ignore_changes usage:

Reviewer 3: Make a heading?

Rename to "Supporting API and UI dictionary updates with ignore_changes"

Author: Changed to heading and text changed to suggested.

> The following example demonstrates how the lifecycle ignore_change field can be used to suppress updates against the 

Reviewer: Please wrap `ignore_changes` in backticks so it is rendered appropriately.

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

> items in a dictionary.  If an external means, (for example via the Fastly API or UI) is used to manage items in a dictionary, then this will stop Terraform realigning the remote state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
items in a dictionary.  If, after your first deploy, the Fastly API or UI is to be used to manage items in a dictionary, then this will stop Terraform realigning the remote state with the initial set of dictionary items defined in your HCL.
```

> items in a dictionary.  If an external means, (for example via the Fastly API) is used to manage items in a dictionary, then this will stop terraform realigning the remote state.

Reviewer: Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

```hcl
...

resource "fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1" "items" {
    service_id = "${fastly_service_v1.myservice.id}"
    dictionary_id = "${{for s in fastly_service_v1.myservice.dictionary : s.name => s.dictionary_id}[var.mydict_name]}"
    items = {
        key1: "value1"
        key2: "value2"
    }
    
    lifecycle {
      ignore_changes = [items,]
    }
}

```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

> * `service_id` - (Required) The ID of the Service that the dictionary belongs to

Reviewer 3: Why cap on Service?

Reviewer 3: If it's a resource, backtick it

* `dictionary_id` - (Required) The ID of the dictionary that the items belong to

> * `items` - (Optional) A Map representing an entry in the dictionary, (key/value)

Reviewer 3: Ditto on Map

## Attributes Reference

[fastly-dictionary]: https://docs.fastly.com/api/config#dictionary

> [fastly-dictionary_item]: https://docs.fastly.com/api/config#dictionary_item

Reviewer 3: Is this valid markdown? 🤔

Author: This was correct.  The markdown was not correct.  The links have been updated and now display.

## Import

> Dictionary items can be populated through the Fastly API or UI.  These items can then be managed by Terraform through the use of the import command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dictionary items in your HCL can be populated by pulling the current remote state of an existing Fastly service, using the `import` command.
```

> Dictionary items can be populated through the Fastly API and/or the console.  These items can then be managed by terraform through the use of the import command.

Reviewer: Please change "console" to "UI"
Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

> Resources are imported into the Terraform state through the use of an ID, and the fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1 resouce has an ID that is made up of the following format.

Reviewer 3: I would delete this and the subsequent code block.

Author: The wording and code have been removed.

> Resources are imported into the terraform state through the use of an ID, and the fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1 resouce has an ID that is made up of the following format.

Reviewer: Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.

```
<serviceID>/<dictionaryID>
```

This is an example of the import command being applied to the resource named `fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1.items`

```

> $ terraform import fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1.items <serviceID>/<dictionaryID>

Reviewer 3: I would rewrite this to be either purely a syntactic guide or purely an example, not a combination of both.

Author: The example has been chosen and values used in the place holders.

```

> If terraform is already managing remote dictionary items against a resource being imported then the user will be asked to remove it from the existing terraform state.  

Reviewer: Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

> The following is an example of the terraform state command to remove the resource named `fastly_service_dictionary_items_v1.items` from the terraform state file.

Reviewer: Please change "terraform" to "Terraform"

Author: Files were searched and updated where appropriate.
